Sometimes when playing an open-world game, I think to myself how much fun it would be if I could just fly everywhere instead of travelling by foot. *AER Memories Of Old*, a bite-sized open-world adventure game, attempts to solve this problem but it is hampered down by keeping things too safe and not fully utilizing this mechanic. 

Double-tapping the jump button in the overworld will transform the main character from a human to a bird, sending the player into a flight mode. Soaring through the world is a joy. There are no meters or timers to worry about. You can fly as far and as long as you wish. As soon as you exit the game's introductory dungeon, this feature is available, meaning that you are free to explore the entire map without any obstructions. The map, while small and mostly empty, does have some variety in its landscapes with areas having entirely different weather conditions.

Exploring the game's open world is underwhelming. Looking at the game's achievements list on other platforms will suggest that there are Easter eggs to find. Playing on the Nintendo Switch, I really did not feel motivated to stop and look around the overworld. The overworld is designed to utilize the flight mechanics as most of the game's map is split apart in what can best be described as floating islands. Some of these islands are questionably small and remind me of the wacky planet designs of *Super Mario Galaxy*. Unlike *Super Mario Galaxy* where there seems to be a collectible packed into every corner, there is nothing to be on the lookout for in *AER Memories of Old*.

There are no collectibles. There are no powerups. Weapons are out of the question as there are no enemies to encounter. Lore about the world can occasionally be found, but a good chunk of the lore is placed in the game's three dungeons and is difficult to miss. NPCs are few and far between. At the start of the game, the player is introduced to a group of NPCs that give vague instructions on where to go. Travelling back to to this town later in the game will provide different scenes of dialogue, but I never found myself getting attached to these characters. Backtracking to this area is most likely not necessary as the game's three main dungeons can be tackled in any order.

Branching pathways within dungeons would suggest that there may be secrets to uncover or multiple ways to reach the end of a dungeon, but exploration is just as limiting. When entering a dungeon, the player loses the best feature of the game, the ability to transform into a bird. If there is a story related reason for losing this ability, the game does a very poor job of reminding the player why this limitation exists. Even after completing a dungeon, the player can only run and jump. With dungeons missing such a critical piece of what makes this game unique, we never get to see puzzles that utilize all of the game's mechanics. Within the overworld, there was only one instance where flying was used as a method of solving a puzzle and it was just a simple matter of flying through a few hoops. Not being able to fly within dungeons slows down the pace of the game and becomes frustrating when most puzzles would be trivial if you could just soar over barriers.

On the bright side, running is quick, but there is so much of it that it would be difficult to not call *AER Memories of Old* a walking simulator in disguise. If often feels like the key to getting through dungeons is walking around in circles until you notice a path that has not been taken yet. Branching pathways are not fun if all paths are mandatory to complete. Light platforming puzzles break up the monotony of just walking, but jumping feels awkward. The jump animation is reminiscent of the one used in the original *Castlevania*. Once a jump is started, the game locks you into one arch. It really is surprising considering how well the flight controls and animation are. Platforming puzzles just equate to a large scale game of Simon. There are typically hieroglyphics on a wall with a set of platforms that show you the sequence in which you need to jump.

Puzzles on foot are just as straightforward. Most of the time, I found myself accidentally solving a puzzle in the process of figuring out what I needed to do and what I was able to move. Saying move in a understatement here, as the player can't actually push or break objects. It is just figuring out what different switches in a room are able to trigger. I ended up finding the dungeons tedious and wanted to take a break while completing them, but the game's save system is busted when inside a dungeon. Exiting a dungeon or quitting the game while in one, will reset all of the progress that has been made so far.

The game is short so at least there is not much progress to lose. Taking my time to explore the world, I spent about five hours before I was met with the end credits. The game can be completed much faster, but I do not have a desire to do a speedrun of this game. I just cannot help but think about how much fun this game would be to speedrun if flight was not disabled in dungeons. I bet there would be some impressive tricks that could be pulled off. 

*AER Memories of Old* retails digitally for $19.99 on the Nintendo Switch. I purchased it on sale for $1.99. It is difficult o recommend this game for full price considering there are much better games in the genre that can be purchased instead at that price. It is not terrible, but just disappointing that game's main selling point is missing from such a large chunk of the game.



