One of my favorite things about arcade games is how they take a simple idea and turn that into an entire game. I have never been water skiing, but I imagine that I would be constantly falling over just like in the 1983 Taito arcade game, *Water Ski*. Judging by Google search results, this seems to be a mostly forgotten title with 1997's *Sega Water Ski* taking the spotlight. In yet another entry in the *Arcade Archives* series, Japanese publisher Hamster brings this game to the Nintendo Switch and Playstation 4 to forever preserve the memory of crashing into rocks. *Arcade Archives Water Ski* offers a simple but fun premise that is undermined by boring methods to dominate high score leaderboards.

Prepare to stare at a lot of blue in *Water Ski*. Like many fast paced vehicle-oriented games of the era, *Water Ski* uses an overhead perspective that allows the game to place an obscene amount of obstacles in the ocean. Why would someone go water skiing in such dangerous conditions? Where are all of these rocks coming from? How is the driver of this boat so confident to go full speed when at any moment he could meet an untimely death? You control a brave water skier just trying to make your through the water without hitting anything face-first.

Simply avoiding obstacles is not enough to succeed at this game. While small rocks can be weaved in between with no issues, large boulders pose a bigger threat as the rope that extends from the back of the boat to the skier's hands can get caught and break off. This can happen more easily than you would think as the boat has a tendency to just verge off in the opposite direction causing the player to zig-zag throughout a level. If things get too overwhelming, there is a dedicated button to slow the boat down. This will grant you finer control over the skier, but if you slow the boat down too much, you will lose your balance and fall in the water anyways. Luckily, the game is somewhat forgiving with falls.

*Water Ski* utilizes a timer instead of a three hit life system. Players will start with two minutes and thirty seconds to travel as far as they can. During casual play, there is a solid chance that the actual length of a game will be less than this. Wiping out for any reason will subtract ten seconds from the timer. The player will respawn a few moments back from the location of a crash which means that the player would still need to overcome the challenges *Water Ski* will throw. The duration of a game can be extended by two minutes after every five thousand points earned. Points are earned by making your way through a level, jumping off of ramps or collecting bonus point items scattered throughout a level.

Jumping off a ramp will probably take a couple attempts to figure out. The player needs to approach the ramp perfectly straight or else the game will count it as a collision. A sound effect will play if this is performed correctly. After the sound triggers, you will need to immediately press the jump button or else you will fall off the ramp. I should probably mention that smaller objects can be jumped over and is a mechanic that is utilized more beyond the first level of the game. In my attempts to successfully pull off a jump, I discovered a technique to achieve high scores while avoiding having to deal with the game's obstacles.

Point bonuses reset when the skier respawns. Combine this with the fact that you get warped backwards after a collision and you can cheese your way to the top of the leaderboards with some practice. I was able to rack up a bunch of points by jumping off a ramp and then crashing into a nearby rock. I was able to trigger a couple of time bonuses and extend the game way longer than it should be without leaving the first level. I began wondering if there was a better spot to farm points. 

There is a stretch towards the end of the first level with four 200-point collectibles placed in between a series of small rocks. In this short stretch there are 800 points to be obtained with very little effort. Wiping out immediately after getting the last 200-point collectible will respawn the player almost in front of the series of collectibles which are ready to be collected again. Even when you take the ten second time penalty into account, this leaves plenty of time to get the 5000 points required to extend the timer. It is a flat 5000 points for each timer extension. I was able to extend a round of *Water Ski* to around eight minutes using this strategy. I eventually moved on and completed the level, but it feels like the strategy can be repeated if the execution remains perfect. 

Learning this strategy ruined *Water Ski* for me. I was able to crack the top 20 on the Nintendo Switch leaderboards. I wanted to explore the later levels of the game, but it no longer seemed worth my time to keep trying to progress if there was not a massive point bonus. With this being an *Arcade Archives* release, the options available for save states are limited. Hi score mode appeared to be broken during the few hours I played *Water Ski*. I could not get any of my scores to upload, regardless of how I played. It worked at some point as there were at least some scores on the leaderboard when I checked them. The leaderboard outside of this mode is also very small, but this is understandable as this game is not exactly a big draw.

As far as the quarter to price ratio goes, I got eight dollars worth of gameplay out of *Water Ski*. I have no intentions of going back to it, but I am glad that I was introduced to it. We need more water-based vehicle games. It is probably time for a new *Hydro Thunder*. 

