Game Boy Advance Video will probably be remembered as the best way to watch *Shrek 2*. Numerous YouTube videos have been made about the laughable quality of the footage stored on these cartridges and the absurd pricing, but it seems like with some slight modifications, the format could have been somewhat less wasteful. While watching content on a Game Boy Advance screen would never have been ideal, Game Boy Advance Video could have been improved by providing an on-demand service instead of pre-packaged bundles.

The downfall of the content on Game Boy Advance video is that episodes included on a cartridge felt like they were randomly selected. This was a problem that I noticed with SpongeBob SquarePants DVDs back before season sets were a thing. Back in 2004, the idea of being able to select a specific episode of a show to watch still felt like a luxury. My parents had Time Warner Cable and the On Demand content was great. That is how I was able to watch so much of HBO's animated Stuart Little television show. Owning individual episodes would still take a couple of years to even become a feature on iTunes, but Nintendo could have had the opportunity to do it first.

Nintendo has had an interesting history with delivering content. Special events were held in stores to give away Pokemon through a link cable. There was a partnership with Blockbuster to have kiosks where players could take their own *Pokemon Snap* or *Pokemon Stadium* cartridges and get photos taken within the game printed out. In Japan, Nintendo was even distributing full games through kiosks for the Famicom Disk System. Given the storage capacity of a Game Boy Advance cartridge, it seems like it could have been possible to distribute software on the handheld in a similar fashion. Imagine just going to Target with a rewritable cartridge and being able to pay a couple of dollars each for the exact four episodes of a show that you want to watch.

Chances are that adoption of such a distribution system would have failed just as badly, but it would have been a bold move by Nintendo. This was an idea that I had before I could envision content being downloaded directly to a console. Even when I was thinking about the future of books, I was still fixated on the book being distributed on a physical cartridge. Maybe physical cartridges could have prevented the current state of ebooks being dominated by one marketplace, but if I had to take a non-idealistic guess, there would be one company with a proprietary cartridge dominating sales instead of an open standard. 

Despite Game Boy Advance Video being a failure, I like how Nintendo did experiments with the console. I never got the opportunity to try out *Pac-Man Vs.* or *Four Swords Adventures*, but it sounds like an even crazier idea to require four Game Boy Advance consoles with four link cables on top of owning another, more expensive, console just to play a game.