Perhaps the best thing to come out of E3 2021 was the sheer amount of demos that were released. Based on stories that I have heard, I probably played through more demos than someone that actually attended E3. It was a year where all of the games that I was excited for were indie titles. *Forza Horizon 5* looked stunning, but that is a game that I was planning on playing regardless of its presence at E3. One game that caught my attention with its visual style was *Sable* and it is now available on Game Pass. *Sable* is currently plagued with performance issues on Xbox One, but that did not stop me from having one of my favorite moments in gaming all year.

The music in the main menu immediately sets the tone for the meditative nature of this game. I am struggling to think of another instance where I was hooked before I even pressed the start button. Ten seconds of piano notes was all I needed and it just gets more beautiful as the vocals begin. I need to find sheet music for this song. Pressing start begins our adventure, a coming of age story.

You play as Sable, a young girl who is about to leave her village and explore the world to discover what she wants to do with her life. Before being tossed into the wild, Sable is going to need a form of transportation to get across the vast desert landscapes. The first hour or two of the game is spent talking to members of your tribe and completing quests to get parts to assemble your own hoverbike. All dialog is text-based, but the writing is brilliant. I was able to latch onto the characters right away. With some slight editing, you could probably take all of the dialog and create a young adult novel.

Gameplay is peaceful. There seems to be no immediate threat of enemies. There is a levitation system that allows you to jump great distances and can be activated multiple times during a jump should you happen to go in the wrong direction. It is nice having that level of control even if there is no penalty for falling and seemingly no way to die. Performance issues make jumps trickier than they should be. I am playing on an original Xbox One, but from what I have heard, these issues also extend to the Series X/S.

After gathering all of the pieces that you need for your hoverbike, you are ready to leave the village and truly begin your adventure. The game initially frames this moment as a grand good-bye ceremony, but when the time finally comes you are greeted by nobody. In the empty village, you find a note telling you that everything is okay. It is tradition to begin your journey alone so the inhabitants of the village have temporarily gone away. With nothing else left to do, you hop on your hoverbike and leave the village. On the screen, the game's title appears in big bold letters, *Sable*. A song with lyrics begins to play. It is somehow just as entrancing as the song used in the main menu. You have full control over *Sable*. I was traveling aimlessly in an empty desert, but I did not care. It was something so simple, but I was having such a memorable time doing it. The atmosphere was relaxing and it completely fit in with the worries that the lead character, Sable, was expressing. 

Am I going to take the correct path? How will I know where to go? Just like the members of the village were expressing, it is your choice to make. This is an open-world adventure game after all. Your only goal is to collect three badges that prove experience in a profession before obtaining a mask to end your journey. There are quite a few masks to choose from. 

*Sable* is a game that I want to play more of. Despite the technical issues, I am just fascinated by what is happening in this world. Also, the graphics are stunning. It looks like a graphic novel has come to life. Apparently, I also need to listen to the band Japanese Breakfast as they did the soundtrack for this game. Based on how much I enjoyed the opening parts of this game, I would say that *Sable* is worth checking out on Game Pass. 

 