So, there I was, minding my own business, trying to find video games at the swap meet with my brother. It was a miserable day to go to an outdoor swap meet, it was actually raining. It rarely rains around these parts. My brother was in town for only a couple of weeks so we had to make the most of the opportunity.

The cold weather did not stop my brother from getting one of those risky swap meet snow cones. It was business as usual for most vendors. Many sellers have their booths protected with a canopy or shade of some sort as it is typically extremely hot outside during the summer. Rain or shine, it seems like nothing stops the swap meet. Some of the smaller sellers with booths that feel more like yard sales did not fair so well. Merchandise got soaked.

These booths with a random assortment of items are where my brother and I spend most of our time at this particular swap meet. My brother is always on the lookout for Hot Wheels and trading cards. I look for video games and gaming related merchandise. I have been known to buy cheap comic books just because there is a cool advertisement for a game on the back cover. As far as the type of games that I look for, it really does not matter, as long as the price is right. It also extends the length of our trips at the swap meet as it gives me a reason to thoroughly look through everything and get the most out of the twenty-five cent admission cost. 

Xbox 360 and Wii games standout easily among a pile of DVD cases, but you never know when you might come across a PS1 game in a stack of jewel cases. PC games are an even rarer find, but that does not stop me from taking a look at cassette tape collections for the slight chance of finding a Commodore 64 game. The chances are even slimmer, but I always hope to find Sega Genesis games in a pile of cassette tapes. Genesis cartridges fit perfectly in storage containers for tapes. I think at one point, this may have been a common tip for managing a large collection of loose Sega Genesis games, but I hardly come across those cassette tape storage trays at swap meets anymore. 

Within the first thirty minutes of arriving at the swap meet, I found a massive score. There was a booth that had some watches and a few Genesis cartridges scattered about. The labels on the games looked like they were in terrible condition to begin with and were made worse by the rain. I would have passed on any game in that shape, especially common ones like *Ms. Pac-Man* and *Ecco the Dolphin*, but it was too good of deal to pass up. I got three cartridges for five dollars. The last game was one that I had never come across in person before, *Contra: Hard Corps*. 

My brother did not even realize that there was a Contra game on the Sega Genesis. Up until Dan Ryckert and Vinny Caravella from Giant Bomb dot com did a video series on the game in 2018, I rarely heard the game discussed. I first learned about the existence of *Contra: Hard Corps* by reading about it in the September 2001 issue of *Game Informer*. It was also where I learned about the Fairchild Channel F. That was the first issue of the magazine that I owned. The magazine had Tony Hawk on the cover and was hyping up the release of *Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3*. Looking back at it, the issue is also interesting because it takes a look at *Dead or Alive 3*, a game for an upcoming console called the Xbox. Would the games in the retro section of a magazine issue that is now considered retro be considered classics now? 

I was excited and annoyed by my find at the swap meet. It was an incredible deal, but I knew that I would be bothered seeing a game in the condition on my shelf. I was open to the idea of using it as trade fodder as I had no way of playing the game. I had a Sega Genesis console, but it was not in working condition. It was my brother's old console. There is probably a story about it that he is not telling me. I would really like to know why there is a piece of gum stuck underneath the console. How does that even happen?

My brother and I came across a booth selling video games. These types of booths can be a mixed bag. They are usually resellers selling games for higher than eBay prices or marketing for used game shops. This booth was ran by someone that appeared to do weekly circuits across various swap meets in the county. He had a large number of boxed NES games at a somewhat reasonable price. I spotted a boxed copy of *Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!!* that was in very decent shape. This booth also bought used games. It was a perfect opportunity to get rid of my rain soaked copy of *Contra: Hard Corps*. Despite the condition, the guy running the booth was super excited to see it. He offered me the Price Charting value without even testing the game. It was going for nearly $50 back then. I had to pay a small amount out of pocket, but I essentially got the boxed copy of *Punch-Out!!* for under twenty dollars.

I would consider this my most successful trip at this swap meet. I got a great find, traded it in for something else I wanted and left happy. Later that night I ended up buying a model 1 Sega Genesis for thirty dollars. It turns out that I would have had a way to play *Contra: Hard Corps* if I had kept it. The struggle.  

 



