I like when game titles get straight to the point. In *Witcheye*, you play as a witch that takes the form of an eyeball as she retrieves stolen gems. Short, side-scrolling levels keep the game feeling fresh even if the basic formula remains the same. *Witcheye* is a game with a lot of replay value that you may already own if you aimlessly claim the free games on Prime Gaming.

The menus in *Witcheye* are a dead giveaway that this was originally a mobile game, but the controls translate nicely. On mobile, movement is performed by swiping. To get around not having a touch screen, swipe controls have been moved entirely to the left analogue stick. This sounds pretty standard, but the addition of a dedicated button used to stop movement is the first indicator that *Witcheye* is not your traditional platformer.

*Witcheye* is a side-scroller where you never touch the ground. You also do not have the ability to jump as you are always floating. Flicking the analogue stick will fling your character in that direction. Momentum is crucial in knocking out enemies and breaking blocks. You can gain speed by repeatedly pressing the analogue stick in the same direction and zoom through levels. Mouse controls are also available which mimic swiping. You are going to need a large mousepad with the amount of swiping you will need to do in later levels. The physics take a few levels to get used to, but moving your way through the environment is more intuitive than it sounds. The range of control that this game offers makes *Witcheye* look like a shoot-em-up without bullets. 

Levels in *Witcheye* are short but plentiful. Each level has hidden collectibles that can be obtained by killing enemies and destroying blocks. Even after finding them, it is still possible for the collectibles to drift off the stage so this adds an additional layer of challenge. It seems entirely possible to skip searching for collectibles and attempt a pacifist playthrough but mandatory enemy encounters that act as mini-boss fights put a stop to that. The encounters can get annoying, but they do provide a nice place to learn how to takeout certain enemies. Each level follows the same basic pattern of doing some side-scrolling, completing a forced enemy encounter and doing just a bit more side-scrolling before reaching the end of a level. None of the levels standout, but each level has a unique name and each group of levels has its own theme that throws in a mechanic such as water, wind and lava.

The themes of the landscapes are not anything special, but there are a large variety of enemies. I am pretty sure one enemy in particular is an homage to Dizzy, the old PC gaming icon. In one level, I was chased by a giant Jack-O'-Lantern. This pretty much confirms that *Witcheye* is a Halloween game. Boss fights provide a nice challenge and it was interesting seeing what the developers were able to come up with to fully take advantage of the game's controls. Aside from a moment in the final boss, the fights felt fair even if it took a few tries to learn the boss patterns.

At the start of the game, only one difficulty option is available. Most of the game is pretty straightforward but things do start to ramp up in the later levels. Completing the game will unlock a higher difficulty mode, but I wish it was as option available from the beginning. I also unlocked a sound test mode by completing the game. It provides an easy way of experiencing the game's soundtrack which also appears to be available for purchase on Bandcamp.

*Witcheye* was previously available for free for Prime Gaming members. A lot of great games have been made available on there, but for some reason, I can rarely get myself to play them. I would say that it mostly has something to do with Amazon Games being yet another client that I have to launch. When I do decide to play a game on there, I am usually treated with a gem. *Witcheye* is no exception. This game retails for $4.99 on Steam and is absolutely worth the price.

